Neupogen (filgrastim) is used to decrease the chance of infection in people
who have non myeloid cancer (cancer that does not involve the bone marrow) and
are receiving chemotherapy medications that may decrease the number of
neutrophils (a type of blood cell needed to fight infection).

Neupogen is also used to help increase the number of white blood cells, and
decrease the length of time with fever in people with acute myeloid leukemia
(AML; a type of cancer of the white blood cells) who are receiving treatment
with chemotherapy medications.

Neupogen is also used in people who are undergoing bone marrow transplants and
in people who have severe chronic neutropenia (condition in which there are a
low number of neutrophils in the blood).

Neupogen is used to prepare the blood for leukapheresis (a treatment in which
certain blood cells are removed from the body.

Neupogen is also used to increase the chance of survival in people who have
been exposed to harmful amounts of radiation, which can cause severe and life-
threatening damage to your bone marrow.

Neupogen belongs to a class of medications called colony-stimulating factors.
It works by helping the body make more neutrophils.





Get emergency medical help if you have **signs of an allergic reaction to
Neupogen** : hives, sweating, rash, dizziness, fast heart rate, wheezing,
difficult breathing, swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.

**Neupogen can cause a serious lung problem called acute respiratory distress
syndrome (ARDS) and a rare but serious side effect called capillary leak
syndrome.** Call your doctor or seek emergency medical attention right away if
you have fever with shortness of breath or rapid breathing, stuffy or runny
nose followed by tiredness, thirst, decreased urination, and sudden swelling
or weight gain.

**Neupogen can cause your spleen to become enlarged, and it could rupture
(tear).** Call your doctor right away if you have left-sided upper stomach
pain or left shoulder pain.

Some side effects may occur during the injection. Tell your medical caregiver
if you feel dizzy, nauseated, light-headed, itchy, sweaty, or have a headache,
chest tightness, back pain, trouble breathing, or swelling in your face.

**Neupogen may cause serious side effects. Call your doctor at once if you
have:**

  * easy bruising, unusual bleeding, purple or red spots of your skin or under your skin;

  * fever, tiredness, stomach pain, back pain;

  * **signs of sickle cell anemia crisis** \- pain or difficulty breathing;

  * **inflammation of your blood vessels** \- numbness or tingling, skin rash, fever, headache, body aches, night sweats, weight loss, feeling or weak or tired; or

  * **kidney problems** \- swelling, urinating less, feeling tired or short of breath.

**Common Neupogen side effects may include:**

  * fever, pain, cough, trouble breathing;

  * nosebleeds;

  * anemia (low red blood cells);

  * bone pain;

  * diarrhea;

  * headache;

  * numbness; or

  * rash, hair loss.

This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your
doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to
FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

Neupogen side effects (more detail)



