Rituximab belongs to a class of medications called monoclonal antibodies. It
is used to treat non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia
(CLL) and works by killing cancer cells. Certain rituximab injection brands
also treat rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, microscopic
polyangiitis, and pemphigus vulgaris by blocking the activity of the part of
the immune system that may damage the joints, veins, and other blood vessels.

Rituximab is used in adults alone or with other medications to treat various
types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (a type of cancer that begins in a type of
white blood cells that normally fights infection).

Rituximab is also used in adults with other medications to treat chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (a type of cancer of the white blood cells).

Rituximab (Rituxan, Ruxience, Truxima) is also used in adults with
methotrexate (Otrexup, Rasuvo, Xatmep, others) to treat the symptoms of
rheumatoid arthritis (RA; a condition in which the body attacks its own
joints, causing pain, swelling, and loss of function) in adults who have
already been treated with a certain type of medication called a tumor necrosis
factor (TNF) inhibitor.

Rituximab (Rituxan, Riabni, Ruxience, Truxima) is also used in adults and
children 2 years of age and older along with other medications to treat
granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's granulomatosis) and microscopic
polyangiitis, which are conditions in which the body attacks its own veins and
other blood vessels, which causes damage to organs, such as the heart and
lungs.

Rituximab injection (Rituxan) is used to treat pemphigus vulgaris (a condition
that causes painful blisters on the skin and the lining the mouth, nose,
throat and genitals).





Get emergency medical help if you have **signs of an allergic reaction to
rituximab:** (hives, difficult breathing, swelling in your face or throat)
**or a severe skin reaction** (fever, sore throat, burning eyes, skin pain,
red or purple skin rash with blistering and peeling).

Some side effects may occur during the injection (or within 24 hours
afterward). Tell your caregiver right away if you feel itchy, dizzy, weak,
light-headed, short of breath, or if you have chest pain, wheezing, sudden
cough, or pounding heartbeats or fluttering in your chest.

**Rituximab may cause a serious brain infection that can lead to disability or
death.** Call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms
(which may start gradually and get worse quickly):

  * confusion, memory problems, or other changes in your mental state;

  * weakness on one side of your body;

  * vision changes; or

  * problems with speech or walking.

Call your doctor at once if you have any of these other side effects, **even
if they occur several months after you receive rituximab, or after your
treatment ends.**

  * painful skin or mouth sores, or a severe skin rash with blistering, peeling, or pus;

  * redness, warmth, or swelling of the skin;

  * severe stomach pain, vomiting, constipation, bloody or tarry stools;

  * irregular heartbeats, chest pain or pressure, pain spreading to your jaw or shoulder;

  * tiredness or jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes);

  * **signs of infection** \- fever, chills, cold or flu symptoms, cough, sore throat, mouth sores, headache, earache, pain or burning when you urinate; or

  * **signs of tumor cell breakdown** \- confusion, weakness, muscle cramps, nausea, vomiting, fast or slow heart rate, decreased urination, tingling in your hands and feet or around your mouth.

**Common rituximab side effects may include:**

  * low white and red blood cells (fever, chills, body aches, pale skin, unusual tiredness, infections);

  * nausea, diarrhea;

  * swelling in your hands or feet;

  * headache, weakness;

  * painful urination;

  * muscle spasms;

  * depressed mood; or

  * cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, sore throat.

This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your
doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to
FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

Rituximab side effects (more detail)



