Atorvastatin belongs to a class of medications called HMG-CoA reductase
inhibitors (statins). It works by slowing the production of cholesterol in the
body to decrease the amount of cholesterol that may build up on the walls of
the arteries and block blood flow to the heart, brain, and other parts of the
body.

Atorvastatin is used together with diet, weight loss, and exercise to reduce
the risk of heart attack and stroke and to decrease the chance that heart
surgery will be needed in people who have heart disease or who are at risk of
developing heart disease.

Atorvastatin is also used to lower the amount of fatty substances such as low-
density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol ('bad cholesterol') and triglycerides in
the blood and to increase the amount of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)
cholesterol ('good cholesterol') in the blood.

Atorvastatin may also be used to decrease the amount of cholesterol and other
fatty substances in the blood in children and teenagers 10 to 17 years of age
who have familial heterozygous hypercholesterolemia (an inherited condition in
which cholesterol cannot be removed from the body normally).

Accumulation of cholesterol and fats along the walls of your arteries (a
process known as atherosclerosis) decreases blood flow and, therefore, the
oxygen supply to your heart, brain, and other parts of your body. Lowering
your blood level of cholesterol and fats with atorvastatin has been shown to
prevent heart disease, angina (chest pain), strokes, and heart attacks.





Get emergency medical help if you have **signs of an allergic reaction to
atorvastatin** (hives, difficult breathing, swelling in your face or throat)
**or a severe skin reaction** (fever, sore throat, burning eyes, skin pain,
red or purple skin rash with blistering and peeling).

Atorvastatin can cause the breakdown of muscle tissue, which can lead to
kidney failure. Call your doctor right away if you have unexplained muscle
pain, tenderness, or weakness especially if you also have fever, unusual
tiredness, or dark urine.

Muscle problems may be more likely in older adults and those who have kidney
problems, thyroid problems, or take certain other medicines.

Also call your doctor at once if you have:

  * muscle weakness in your hips, shoulders, neck, and back;

  * trouble lifting your arms, trouble climbing or standing;

  * **liver problems** \- loss of appetite, stomach pain (upper right side), tiredness, itching, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes);

  * **kidney problems** \- swelling, urinating less, feeling tired or short of breath; or

  * **high blood sugar** \- increased thirst, increased urination, dry mouth, fruity breath odor.

**Common atorvastatin side effects may include:**

  * pain in your bones, spine, joints, or muscles;

  * pain and burning when you urinate, painful urination;

  * muscle spasms;

  * upset stomach;

  * trouble sleeping;

  * stuffy nose, runny nose, sore throat;

  * diarrhea, nausea; or

  * pain in your arms or legs.

This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your
doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to
FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

Atorvastatin side effects (more detail)



