Prozac is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant.
Fluoxetine affects certain chemical messengers (neurotransmitters) that
communicate between brain cells and helps people with depression, panic,
anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms.

Prozac is used to treat major depressive disorder, bulimia nervosa (an eating
disorder), obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and premenstrual
dysphoric disorder (PMDD).

Prozac is sometimes used together with another medication called olanzapine
(Zyprexa) to treat manic depression caused by bipolar disorder. This
combination is also used to treat depression after at least 2 other
medications have been tried without successful treatment of symptoms.

If you also take olanzapine (Zyprexa), read the Zyprexa medication guide and
all patient warnings and instructions provided with that medication.





Get emergency medical help if you have **signs of an allergic reaction to
Prozac** (hives, difficult breathing, swelling in your face or throat) **or a
severe skin reaction** (fever, sore throat, burning eyes, skin pain, red or
purple skin rash with blistering and peeling).

Report any new or worsening symptoms to your doctor, such as: mood or behavior
changes, anxiety, panic attacks, trouble sleeping, or if you feel impulsive,
irritable, agitated, hostile, aggressive, restless, hyperactive (mentally or
physically), more depressed, or have thoughts about suicide or hurting
yourself.

**Prozac may cause serious side effects. Call your doctor at once if you
have:**

  * blurred vision, tunnel vision, eye pain or swelling, or seeing halos around lights;
  * fast or pounding heartbeats, fluttering in your chest, shortness of breath, and sudden dizziness (like you might pass out);
  * **low levels of sodium in the body** \- headache, confusion, slurred speech, severe weakness, vomiting, loss of coordination, feeling unsteady; or
  * **severe nervous system reaction** \- very stiff (rigid) muscles, high fever, sweating, confusion, fast or uneven heartbeats, tremors, feeling like you might pass out.

**Seek medical attention right away if you have symptoms of serotonin
syndrome, such as:** agitation, hallucinations, fever, sweating, shivering,
fast heart rate, muscle stiffness, twitching, loss of coordination, nausea,
vomiting, or diarrhea.

**Common side effects of Prozac may include:**

  * sleep problems (insomnia), strange dreams;
  * headache, dizziness, drowsiness, vision changes;
  * tremors or shaking, feeling anxious or nervous;
  * pain, weakness, yawning, tired feeling;
  * upset stomach, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea;
  * dry mouth, sweating, hot flashes;
  * changes in weight or appetite;
  * stuffy nose, sinus pain, sore throat, flu symptoms; or
  * decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm.

This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your
doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to
FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

Prozac side effects (more detail)



